Documentation of pynxtools-raman (#29)
FAIRmat-NFDI/pynxtools-raman: docs/guides/installation.md

# Installation of pynxtools

> 

Reviewer: I think here we should first point to the latest release version and only then to the Github version.

Author: These were the changes:

"**Latest Release Version**

You can install the [latest release version](https://pypi.org/project/pynxtools-raman/) by:

```shell
pip install pynxtools[raman]
```

As pynxtools-raman is a plugin of pynxtools, pynxtools itself will as well be installed.

**Latest Development Version**"

instead of 

"for the latest development version."

for the latest development version.

Download the repository via git clone:
```shell
git clone https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/pynxtools-raman.git
```
Switch to the project root folder:
```shell
cd pynxtools-raman
```
You see three Folders:
- examples: contains example datasets to show how the data conversion is done (currently one example from WITec and one example from the Raman Open Database)
- tests: contains a test procedure and files, which are required for software development

> - src/pynxtools_raman: source files, which contain the sub-reader function for Raman experiments. This only works in combination with the Python package [pynxtools](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/pynxtools). This is a specialization of the [Multiformat Reader](https://fairmat-nfdi.github.io/pynxtools/how-tos/use-multi-format-reader.html). There are as well sub-reader functions for a WITec device and files from the [Raman Open Database](https://solsa.crystallography.net/rod/new.html?CODSESSION=f4b7fb6d2jsataebeph9qkchue). In addition, config.json files are located in src/pynxtools_raman/config. These are necessary to map the input data via the Multiformat Reader to the NeXus concepts. These config files allow individual adjustments, as different laboratories may have different electronic lab notebook structures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- src/pynxtools_raman: source files, which contain the sub-reader function for Raman experiments. This only works in combination with the Python package [`pynxtools`](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/pynxtools). `pynxtools-raman` has a reader reader plugin for `pynxtools`, which is a specialization of the [Multiformat Reader](https://fairmat-nfdi.github.io/pynxtools/how-tos/use-multi-format-reader.html). There are sub-reader functions for a WITec device and files from the [Raman Open Database](https://solsa.crystallography.net/rod/new.html?CODSESSION=f4b7fb6d2jsataebeph9qkchue). In addition, default config.json files are located in src/pynxtools_raman/config. These are necessary to map the input data via the Multiformat Reader to the NeXus concepts. These config files allow individual adjustments, as different laboratories may have different electronic lab notebook structures.
```
Make a link to the config file deccription here.

Author: included text corrections manually. added a link in the end: "You can find more information about the config file [here](adjust_config_file.md).".

> Consider setting up an invididual [python environment](https://realpython.com/python-virtual-environments-a-primer/), to seperate the python fuctnionalities of this package from the python funtionalities of your operating system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider setting up an invididual [python environment](https://realpython.com/python-virtual-environments-a-primer/), to seperate the python functionalities of this package from the python functionalities of your operating system:

```

Author: ok. commited.

For Ubuntu-based systems:
```shell

> python -m venv .pyenv

Reviewer: Generally, NOMAD uses `uv` now for python (package) installation, but this is of course also fine.
